[Welcome]
#My name is Kurt!#
I'm an artist who primarily works on coding projects including grant funded apps and websites. I'm specifically interested in exploring how we can be entertained by immersive digital art without relying on environmentally costly technologies. Our world is becoming increasingly reliant on high res graphics and wasteful AI. This is not the only way forward and it surely isn't the best way.
#This is my website!#
It is built completely in the terminal with vim. I wrote a javascript file that scrubs a plain-text file that I use to populate the website rather than having to update html every time I want to add something to the page. This is in line with my goals to decouple myself from fancy api's made by large coorporations that try to draw you in and become reliant on their instantly gratifying, do-everything-for-you systems.

I didn't google a system to copy. I thought up a way that I would most enjoy creating my website and I built it with html, css, and js.

Currently, this site is being hosted with no backend, so the text file is being parsed every time a user opens the website, the js code running on their machine. While this isn't very wasteful considering the size of the file, I'd like to eventually host it on my solar server, and run the parsing and build the html once in the back end rather than every time a user visits the page.
[Cornhole PD]
~spaceowlpro.itch.io/cornhole-pd~

<CornholeKurt>

Cornhole is a game I'm working on for the Playdate, the little yellow handheld console with a crank. Follow along here for updates on where it's at. Currently I'm focused on writing dialogue for the story mode.

<CornholeBag>
You can play through dialogue for the game as I write it here:
~spaceowlproductions.com/inkPlayer.html~

I'll be adding dialogue to this for testing as I write, so feel free to check back in as you'd like.
[SoundWalk]
~soundwalkapp.com~

SoundWalk is a longterm project that uses GPS on phones to drive audio experiences. It started as a small dream to create musical scores for public spaces. I imagined being able to compose music that was mapped to a park, and have it change as the listener moved through the space. It ended up being more of a tool for social causes, specifically as a way to tell the marginalized stories and histories of an area. 

An article was published in the MDW Atlas project that you can read here:
~mdw.art/atlas/goingwiththeflow~
[Compost Your Internet]
~compostyourinternet.com~

<CompostYourInternet>

This is a solar server that runs from my house and takes data measured at Dirt Wain, a composting company in Fort Wayne, IN, to generate online art pieces.
[Thoughts]
#Playdate/Mobile Textgame Engine Ideas - 2/7/25#
I've been pondering a way to build a simple textbased game engine that has many limitations on gameplay so that it is relatively easy to write with as a game writer, or even just someone curious in making games and wants to start with something simple but engaging. It is heavily inspired by the Bitsy gamemaker. Initially, I imagined it as being a text input type of engine like a lot of classic text adventures and MUD interfaces, but now I'm thinking about something entirely different...

By imagining how a text adventure would be doable on a console like the Playdate that is awkard for text input, I was imagining a system where the player can only "press on". Rather than moving around in the world and interacting by typing text, they would crank the console's crank input to move forward, and maybe use the d-pad and buttons to select "selectable" text on screen to interact with items, characters, and possibly dialogue options.

With these limitations, how would a player move through the world? My idea is that, much like in a game of D&D, the player would select a "drive" which is a goal that they would like to achieve. This could be to a drive to "explore the woods." In this scenario, the player would select from a list of drives the thing they'd like to pursue, and then from then on they crank the crank to roll the dice on how they progress in achieving that goal. In this way, creating a world for the gamemaker is less about creating a map of a world and intricate details, the gamemaker only has to consider the world as far as the player would interact with it based on these drives. Using the same system, the player could just as easily be working on a drive to "make a potion." In this circumstance the player would crank the crank and roll the dice on various stages of the potion brewing process. According to the game's engine, exploring a location and brewing a potion is the same thing.

With this example above, I could develop a simple character system where skills can be developed and leveled up to help with certain types of progression dice rolls, and develop a simple inventory system. Even if I started out with no dialogue options, this could be the start to a fairly compelling adventure engine built on very little architecture.

Now, imagine this system on a mobile phone. Instead of using the crank to progress, the player could simply swipe the screen down (like the usual way to refresh a page in today's common mobile design pracices) to progress their current drive, and select selectables via the touchscreen. I should look into how possible it is to run lua or C in browser so that I can determine if I could write the engine's codebase in one of those for both the Playdate and Mobile at the same time.
#Inland Empire - 1/25/25#
So, tonight I watched Inland Empire for the first time and truly experienced pure cinema. It sounds hilarious and hyperbolic to say out loud, but it's really how I'm feeling.

A friend of mine lent me the Blu-Ray and was recently asking me for it back because he wants to watch through Lynch's filmography after his recent passing. I told him that I still haven't gotten to watch it, but of course he can have it back. "Maybe I'll borrow it again after that. I keep meaning to watch it but I haven't had the chance to be alone with it and give it my attention." Well, today before I had to give it back, my partner happened to have some plans to see some friends. We went to my niece's and nephew's joint birthday party with a house full of screaming kids and then after that she went to her friends' thing and I went home to watch the film.

I was feeling tired, so I made cup of coffee, put the film in and cranked the speakers. The experience of watching the film was all sorts of ups and downs. I can't lie. There were a few moments where I felt the length of the film and wondered if the film was nearing its end. Watching the film was like falling into deep trances and then waking up. Repeatedly. The film tugs at linear narratives and then falls into abstraction in a push and pull that I now feel put me into some sort of meditative state. There are sequences that had me crying that came out of nowhere. As if I was just another of the many subjects on screen being pulled in and out of the cinematic experience of creation and observation.

When the film came to an end and Nina Simone's Sinnerman was blasting, I was still in this deep trance when my partner suddenly appeared next to me in the darkness. She had arrived home from her party. At that moment the cat jumped down the stairs in a clash and made a loud commotion that truly startled me. It felt like the most appropriate way to end the film experience. I haven't been drinking much lately, but the buzz of the coffee and the film made me want to grab a bottle of wine as a comedown. I stumbled to even remember my birthday when the person at the store asked me. 

Expressing to both Sarah and my friend who lent me the film a soup of thoughts about what I just experienced: 

I think this is the most movie ass movie I've ever seen. Lynch expresses a truth in this film that can only be expressed through sound and images, and someone watching that on the screen. Like I said, it sounds hyperbolic and ridiculous to say, but my experience was the purest dialogue between myself the viewer and sound and image from an artist that I've ever experienced. I wanted to write this down to capture the feeling before it went away.

Once I got home from the store with the bottle of wine, I hugged Sarah for an extended period that she even remarked upon. The film filled me with a gratitude for life and my love with her. In the past, the only film to illicit any similar reaction to was Synecdoche New York, which I would say is a similar film to this but I think that would do a disservice to this film. I think there's nothing else like it, and I'm so glad I finally experienced it.

If you're reading this, I recommend you spend a few hours with family, go home tired and watch Inland Empire at full volume and disappear into the flashing images and sound for 3 hours. It's one of the best things I've done in a while.
